content/yafra-tagger/index.md, before:

+++
title = "Yafra Tagger"
date =  2023-05-11T17:53:48+02:00
draft = false
+++


# Yafra-Tagger

When you sit down to work, external critics aren’t the enemy. It’s you who you must to fight against to do great fucking work. You must overcome yourself. While having drinks with Tibor Kalman one night, he told me, “When you make something no one hates, no one fucking loves it.” Whatever can be captured in words can be conquered with understanding. Form follows fucking function. Someday is not a fucking day of the week. Design is all about fucking relationships—the relationship of form and content, the relationship of elements, the relationship of designer and user. Don’t get hung up on things that don’t fucking work. Be fucking bold. Greatness isn’t the height of your stature, it’s the heft of your spirit. Creativity requires fucking tenacity. Most of your accomplishments will be demonstrations of tenacity, not talent. You are not your fucking work. You won’t get good at anything by doing it a lot fucking aimlessly. Don’t fucking lie to yourself. When you design, you have to draw on your own fucking life experiences. If it’s not something you would want to read/look at/use then why fucking bother? The details are not the details. They make the fucking design.

## Help{#help}

content goes here

Commit message:

replace lorem ipsum with real text

content/yafra-tagger/index.md, after:

+++
title = "Yafra Tagger"
date =  2023-05-11T17:53:48+02:00
draft = false
+++



### Add EXIF data to your digitized analog film

Yafra-Tagger is the companion app for [Yafra](/yafra). It reads Yafra files and writes data to your digitized film. 

### Getting started{#help}
Export your films from Yafra to you mac (select a film from the film list and share it using AirDrop, Mail or Save to Files). Open Yafra-Tagger and drag the film to the left panel. Now drag your digitized film images to the right panel. Supported file types are
- jpeg
- tiff
- heic
- png

Now assign exposures to images by dragging them from the left panel to the right panel. You can assign the same exposure to multiple images. If you accidentally assign a the wrong exposure, simply replace it by dragging the correct one to the image.
Images can be removed
### Adobe Lightroom Classic
Select an image that you want to tag, choose Photo/Show in Finder (cmd-R). Tag the image in Yafra-Tagger, go back to Lightroom Classic and select Metadata/Read Metadata from File. Now Lightroom will use the updated data.

### Roadmap
- Support more file formats
- Rotate images in the image list
- Add File menu
